- [Instructor] With Quarkus, there are several ways
to create a new application.
Of course any of them are viable,
but I want to walk you through some of the basics
of each one of them.
One way to start a new Quarkus-based application
is through the Maven plugin.
You execute a Maven command, pass in the plugin,
and call the create goal on that plugin,
and it will generate a bootstrapped application
for you with some basic extension points.
Now, there's a few things that you need to add
when you call the create goal.
First and foremost, is the project group ID,
which should look very familiar
if you've ever worked with Maven.
The second is the artifact ID,
and this is obviously the name of your artifact itself,
and again, it should be very familiar
if you've ever worked with Maven.
The next element that you need to provide is a class name,
and this is the class name where your application
will respond to web requests at,
and the path is where those web requests will go.
So those apply really to web-based applications
that you are providing that details.
Another mechanism to create a new project,
and the one that I use most often, is via an IDE plugin.
Now, many IDEs contain plugins specifically
for Quarkus and IntelliJ Ultimate Edition,
which is what I use, definitely does provide that.
This allows you to select, not only the application details,
but any of the extensions that you want
to add to your application,
and it generates the project locally in your IDE
without having to go through any of the downloading
and expanding operations that we're going to have to do
with the web-based model,
which is what we will show you next.
So this is the final way of creating an application,
and it's probably the most universal inefficient,
since it applies to everybody.
The location is code.quarkus.io,
you select all of your details of the project,
and then any extensions you want to add,
download it to a zip file,
and then you go from there.
Now let's jump into a website
and let's take a look at this,
and walk through these steps.
All right, this is code.quarkus.io,
and the first thing that we're going to do here,
is we're going to enter in a group.
Now I'm going to choose com.frankmoley.lil.lq,
so LinkedIn learning, learning Quarkus.
This is just a pattern that I use for my courses.
You choose, whatever group makes sense for you.
Now, the artifact name here is,
I'm going to just use is example.
We will select the Maven build tool.
Our version is fine.
You'll notice this flag here.
Certain extensions have sample code
that you can download with the project,
if you choose that.
We're not going to use that,
so I'm going to select No, Thanks.
Now I'm going to pick two extensions,
RESTEasy JAX-RS and RESTEasy Jackson,
so that I get an object marshaller.
Now I'm going to generate my application.
You'll notice there's a couple ways to do that,
download as a zip file, push it to GitHub, or share.
I'm going to download as a zip,
but oftentimes if you want to do this,
you can go ahead and push straight to GitHub,
so that you have that base commit,
because quite often that's the first thing that we do,
is download it and then push a base commit.
So, that may be an easier way for you.
In this case, I'm going to go ahead
and just download the zip file.
All right, so now that that's downloaded,
let's jump into a terminal window,
and you'll see that I have the zip file in my downloads.
So I'm going to go ahead and unzip that,
and now I'm going to move this folder
to where I keep my code on my machine for this course,
and now I'm going to jump into my IDE.
So now I need to import this project,
as a new module,
use Maven as the import model,
we'll go ahead and set our language level
to the same JDK that I'm using,
which is 14, and we will allow Maven to do all
of its downloading and dependencies,
and while it's doing that,
I'm going to go to source, main, Java,
and I'm going to create a new package,
com.frankmoley.lil.lq.example,
and in there I'm going to create a new Java Class,
and we will call this Greeting,
and now, to my Greeting,
I'm going to put an @Path of greeting,
and then I'm going to do an @GET, @Produces,
and we'll go ahead and do a MediaType,
and we will just do plain text,
and we'll talk about all these details here in a little bit,
and what all this means, but for right now,
let's just walk through the basics.
We'll do a public String, called getGreeting,
and we will simply return Hello World.
Now there's a couple ways that we can run our application.
I can set up, because IntelliJ allows me to,
I can just simply run this from a IDE,
because it knows that this is a Quarkus application,
and it knows how to run that.
A more correct way to do this, however,
I'm going to pop open a terminal window,
directly in my IDE here,
and you can do the same from your terminal or from your IDE.
I'm going to go ahead and go into our example project,
and I am going to simply run a mvn compile quarkus:dev.
Now what this is going to do,
is it's going to download everything that it needs
to run the application,
and then you'll just turn on your actual application
and get it up and running with live code turned on.
So you'll see that our application has started up,
the CDI container is there, RESTEasy,
RESTEasy Jackson is there
from our second log message,
and now what I can do, is I can go to a browser
and I can simply go to localhost:8080/greeting,
and you'll see that I got Hello World,
which is what I would expect.
Now, we're going to get into a lot more detail
about what we all just did, but I did want to show you
that you can simply download an application,
get it started, and run the application,
in just a few clicks.